Quick install:
-------------

This file will give hints on getting IPplan working on a system running
Microsoft IIS and MSSQL databases. This is reported to work just fine,
but is untested by myself as I do not have access to such platforms. See
the forums on SourceForge for further information. This message contains
information on setting up PHP as a CGI application under IIS:
https://sourceforge.net/forum/message.php?msg_id=2482268

NOTE: You must be running PHP 4.3.3 or later for this to work.

The following changes must be made to your PHP installation as per the PHP
manual:

+1. In your php.ini file, set "cgi.rfc2616_headers = 0"

+2. In Web Site Properties -> File/Directory Security -> Anonymous Access dialog box, 
check the "Anonymous access" checkbox and uncheck any other checkboxes 
(i.e. uncheck "Basic authentication," "Integrated Windows authentication," 
and "Digest" if it's enabled.) Click OK.

+3. In "Custom Errors", select the range of "401;1" through "401;5" and 
click the "Set to Default" button.

If you want to view or edit any of the files under Windows, use WordPad,
not NotePad as NotePad does not understand Unix files.

NOTE: if upgrading, read the UPGRADE file.
NOTE2: if you get a fatal error about an undefined database function, read
       the FAQ section in the README

I assume a working installation of IIS and an MSSQL database. The database
must be configured already and PHP must be installed into IIS and working.
To get this working is beyond the scope of this installation file.

In your web tree: 

1) create a directory called ipplan
2) unzip the IPplan distribution into this directory
3) create the ipplan database using the MSSQL administration tools.
   this includes the creation of the necessary system DSN to connect 
   to the database. make a note of the DSN as it will be required later.

4) modify the user and password info in the config.php script.
   put the DSN in the user field and leave the database field blank.
   the database driver to use is odbc_mssql.
   additional settings can be changed in the config.php script at this
   stage too. See the README for more information.

5) open a web browser and point it to the installation script in the
   admin directory (http://mywebserver.com/ipplan/admin/install.php)

   you will be prompted to create the database schema. This may fail
   if the DSN does not have enough rights to create tables so you will need
   to either copy the statements into the database, or temporarily change
   the database password in the config.php file to a database user that has
   enough rights to do this.

   you can manually load the statements by copying the display output
   from the install.php script into a file (example ipplandbf.sql)
   and then executing the file as the database administrator.

6)  now point your web browser to the main IPplan web page
   (http://mywebserver.com/ipplan), select the admin drop down menu and add 
   customers, groups and users using the admin user defined in the config.php
   file - you MUST create at least one regular user, one group and one customer

7) send me an e-mail about how you use IPplan!

Hope it works!
ipplan@gmail.com
