Quick install:
-------------

NOTE: if upgrading, read the UPGRADE file.
NOTE2: if you get a fatal error about an undefined database function, read
       the FAQ section in the README

I assume a working installation of MySQL 3.23.15 or higher and php 4.1 or 
higher should work. To get multilingual support (languages other than 
English), you will need to follow the steps later in this document.

In your web tree (normally /home/httpd/html or /var/www/html), 

1) create a directory called ipplan
2) untar tar-ball into this directory
3) change the directory ownership and permissions of the ipplan directory
   chown -R root.nobody ipplan
   chmod -R 750 ipplan

   this is operating system dependent - the above line is for a Redhat 6.2
   based system. Have a look at the rest of your web tree for the correct
   settings for your system.

   For Redhat 7.x systems use:

   chown -R root.apache ipplan
   chmod -R 750 ipplan

   It is important to set the correct permissions to prevent people from
   seeing your passwords stored in config.php

4) create the database by issuing the following at the command prompt:

   mysqladmin -p create ipplan

   ONLY DO THIS STEP ONCE FOR A NEW INSTALLATION
5) add a database user for ipplan using mysql -p
   GRANT SELECT,INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE on ipplan.* 
       TO ipplan@localhost IDENTIFIED by 'password';

   Change the above password to whatever you wish

   ONLY DO THIS STEP ONCE FOR A NEW INSTALLATION
6) modify the user and password info in the config.php script.
   additional settings can be changed in the config.php script at this
   stage too. See the README for more information.

   if you are using InnoDB transaction safe tables, make sure to enable
   transaction support in config.php

7) open a web browser and point it to the installation script in the 
   admin directory (http://mywebserver.com/ipplan/admin/install.php)

   you will be prompted to create the database schema. The user created
   above does not have enough rights to create tables so you will need
   to either copy the statements into the database, or temporarily change 
   the database password in the config.php file to a database user that has
   enough rights to do this.

   you can manually load the statements by copying the display output
   from the install.php script into a file (example ipplandbf.sql)
   and then executing the file by logining in as the newly created user using
   mysql and issue:

   mysql -p ipplan < ipplandbf.sql

8) now point your web browser to the main IPplan web page
   (http://mywebserver.com/ipplan), select the admin drop down menu and add 
   customers, groups and users using the admin user defined in the config.php
   file - you MUST create at least one regular user, one group and one customer

9) send me an e-mail about how you use IPplan!



Backing Up your MySQL Database:
---------------------------------

   Being the responsible system administrator that you are, from time to time you
are going to want to backup your ipplan database.  Perhaps you are upgrading or perhaps
you are moving IPPlan to a new server.  The follow procedure is appropriate for a 
MySQL environment:

To dump the database:
	 mysqldump -u ipplan -pipplan99 ipplan > ipplan.sql
         (Be sure to alter with your username and password)

This will create a file with all of the SQL statements necessary in order to rebuild
the MySQL database.  Now, some day may come when you will be glad that you were such
a responsible system admin and you will want to restore this backup.

To restore the database:
	1.  If needed, remove the old ipplan database with "drop database ipplan"
             *** STEP 1 WILL CAUSE TOTAL DATA LOSS FOR YOUR IPPLAN DATABASE.
        2.  Follow the installation directions for creating the ipplan database
            up to step 6. 
        3.  Copy the ipplan.sql file to your current directory.
        4.  Run "mysql -u ipplan -pipplan99 ipplan < ipplan.sql"



Enabling multilingual support:
-----------------------------

To get multilingual support working, php must be compiled with GNU gettext
support enabled. This is NOT enabled by default. gettext is normally 
installed on all Linux distributions, but may not be available on other
UNIX variants. So if you are not using Linux, download and install gettext
from http://www.gnu.org/software/gettext before installing php. Once gettext
is installed, you will need to recompile php with gettext support enabled.
To do this, follow the instructions for installing php from http://www.php.net,
but make sure you add

	--with-gettext

to the ./configure line. To check if gettext is enabled in php, execute this
simple php script:

<?php
phpinfo();
?>

If your language is not currently available, feel free to follow the 
instructions in the TRANSLATIONS file and do your own.

Hope it works!
ipplan@gmail.com
