Guide to translators:
--------------------

If you are using KDE as your desktop environment, you can use kbabel
to update a translation. kbabel is a graphic utility making the process
very simple: see http://i18n.kde.org/tools/kbabel. Kbabel should be
installed on most Linux distributions by default if the development
environment is installed.

The following translations are available: en, bg

New translation:
---------------

To create a new translation of IPplan, follow these simple steps. Note that
you do not need programming experience to do a translation, just some
available time. Doing a translations does not even require you to edit
any source code!

1) Make sure that gettext support is enabled in php (see INSTALL)
2) Change to the locale directory in the directory where you have installed
   ipplan.
3) Create a new directory for the language as per 

	http://lcweb.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/englangn.html

   Note that the code must be two letters as per the 639-1 column
4) Inside this directory, create a new directory called LC_MESSAGES
5) Change back to the ipplan home directory
6) Complete the blank messages.po file in the ipplan directory.
   Each msgstr="" field must be filled in with the translated msgid 
   string above it.
7) Execute
	msgfmt messages.po -o messages.mo

   This creates the binary file that will be used by the actual
   translation process during runtime.
8) Now move the messages.po and messages.mo files to the LC_MESSAGES
   directory created earlier in step 4
9) Mail the newly created messages.po file created in step 6 to 
   ipplan@gmail.com so that it can be added to the official 
   IPplan distribution.
10)Modify the config.php script to define the new language code you
   have created in step 3. To do this, find the $iso_codes array and
   modify that.

Update translation:
------------------

To update an existing translation of IPplan (IPplan has new functionality
and this needs to be translated), follow these steps:

1) You will require a blank messages.po file from the most recent ipplan 
   sources.
2) Create a temporary working directory and change to it.
3) Copy the blank messages.po file from step 1 to blank.po in your 
   temporary directory.
4) Copy the messages.po file from your language in the locale directory of
   the ipplan sources to mylang.po in your temporary directory.
5) Execute

	msgmerge mylang.po blank.po> messages.po

   This merges the existing translations with any newly added strings from
   the ipplan sources.
6) Find any uncompleted msgstr="" lines and provide the translations for them.
7) Follow on from step 7 under "New translations"
